---
title: My goals for 2025
draft: true
date: 2025-01-06
excerpt:
  Keeping myself on track by documenting publicly my personal and business goals
  for 2025!
---

---

Now that the festive celebrations draw to a close and we move back into the
regular cycle of work and play, I find myself excitedly looking forward to the
year ahead.

## Personal Objectives

### Writing

I hope that 2025 will bring more opportunities to write, either on this blog or
via SEO endevours on the Edit Square website. Not only do I hope for more
opportunities, but I also hope to improve my rather lack lustre abilitiy to
commit thought to paper (as it were).

As a technical person I find writing difficult.

I want to work on my abilitiy to write, and provide joy via my writing, not only
information!

## Business Objectives

### Rewrite Form Flare

I've been toying with rewriting Form Flare for over a year now. It's currently
written in dotnet core, and hosted on Azure. This is a wee bit overkill for the
meagre amount of users I have managed to convince to use it!

Not only is hosting relatively expensive, but I'm no longer writing dotnet these
days, and would like to consolidate my products onto a simpler techincal stack.

In addition there are a few features which I never got around to fully
implementing which has meant I've never really marketed the solution. Rewriting
and drawing a line under the project for the time being seems like a good idea.

### Edit Square

Public launch of Edit Square - it is coming! Honest.

It's been quite a few years since Matt introduced me to his vision of Edit
Square. We've struggled to assign much meaningful time to the business, and as
the years ticked by so has the technology improved. We now find ourselves in a
fairly good place with the technical stack, and are part way through building
the editor. This year should see the public launch of Edit Square, and we hope
to follow in veed's footsteps in creating something useful for the community.

### Content Streams

Continue to grow the Content Streams product with TOMD. I expect to grow the
team and hire a few developers to pick up the technical aspects which I
currently do. This will free me up to spend more time enacting my CTO duties
across the business.

One of my main objectives is to reduce overall costs and optimise existing
processes within the firm. While continuing to improve the Content Streams
robustness and adding features.

### Micro Agency

I'm looking to convert previous clients onto a retainer model and attract a few
more clients. I want this to be as handsoff as possible and utilise AI for top
of funnel activites wherever possible.
